doc/flake-ctl-firecracker-register.rst, before:

FLAKE-CTL-FIRECRACKER-REGISTER(8)
=================================

NAME
----

**flake-ctl firecracker register** - Register VM application

SYNOPSIS
--------

.. code:: bash

   USAGE:
       flake-ctl firecracker register [OPTIONS] --vm <VM> --app <APP>


   OPTIONS:
       --app <APP>
       --no-net
       --resume
       --overlay-size <OVERLAY_SIZE>
       --run-as <RUN_AS>
       --target <TARGET>
       --vm <VM>

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Register the given application to run inside of the specified firecracker
virtual machine. The registration process is two fold:

1. Create the application symlink pointing to :file:`/usr/bin/firecracker-pilot`
2. Create the application default configuration below :file:`/usr/share/flakes`.
   Each application registered is called a **flake**

On successful completion the registered *--app* name can be called
like a normal application on this host.

For further details about the flake configuration please refer to
the **firecracker-pilot** manual page.

OPTIONS
-------

--app <APP>

  An absolute path to the application on the host. If not specified via
  the target option, the application will be called with that path inside
  of the VM

--no-net

  Disable networking

--overlay-size <OVERLAY_SIZE>

  Size of overlay write space in bytes. Optional suffixes are:
  KiB/MiB/GiB/TiB (1024) or KB/MB/GB/TB (1000)

--resume

  Resume the VM from previous execution. If the VM is still running,
  the app will be executed inside of this VM instance

--run-as <RUN_AS>

  Name of the user to run firecracker

--target <TARGET>

  An absolute path to the application in the VM. Use this option if the application path
  on the host should be different to the application path inside of the VM

--vm <VM>

  A virtual machine name. The name must match with a name in the local firecracker
  registry


FILES
-----

* /usr/share/flakes
* /etc/flakes

EXAMPLE
-------

.. code:: bash

   $ flake-ctl firecracker register --vm NAME \
       --overlay-size 20g \
       --app /usr/bin/apt-get

AUTHOR
------

Marcus Schäfer

COPYRIGHT
---------

(c) 2022, Elektrobit Automotive GmbH

Commit message:

Add firecracker include provisioning
This commit implements reading of the flake include section
for the firecracker pilot. With the include tar support it's
possible to provision any arbitrary data into the VM instance
prior launch. For firecracker the include feature requires the
use of an overlay. This Fixes #95

doc/flake-ctl-firecracker-register.rst, after:

FLAKE-CTL-FIRECRACKER-REGISTER(8)
=================================

NAME
----

**flake-ctl firecracker register** - Register VM application

SYNOPSIS
--------

.. code:: bash

   USAGE:
       flake-ctl firecracker register [OPTIONS] --vm <VM> --app <APP>


   OPTIONS:
       --app <APP>
       --include-tar <INCLUDE_TAR>...
       --no-net
       --resume
       --overlay-size <OVERLAY_SIZE>
       --run-as <RUN_AS>
       --target <TARGET>
       --vm <VM>

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Register the given application to run inside of the specified firecracker
virtual machine. The registration process is two fold:

1. Create the application symlink pointing to :file:`/usr/bin/firecracker-pilot`
2. Create the application default configuration below :file:`/usr/share/flakes`.
   Each application registered is called a **flake**

On successful completion the registered *--app* name can be called
like a normal application on this host.

For further details about the flake configuration please refer to
the **firecracker-pilot** manual page.

OPTIONS
-------

--app <APP>

  An absolute path to the application on the host. If not specified via
  the target option, the application will be called with that path inside
  of the VM

--include-tar <INCLUDE_TAR>...

  Name of a tar file to be included on top of the VM instance.
  This option can be specified multiple times

--no-net

  Disable networking

--overlay-size <OVERLAY_SIZE>

  Size of overlay write space in bytes. Optional suffixes are:
  KiB/MiB/GiB/TiB (1024) or KB/MB/GB/TB (1000)

--resume

  Resume the VM from previous execution. If the VM is still running,
  the app will be executed inside of this VM instance

--run-as <RUN_AS>

  Name of the user to run firecracker

--target <TARGET>

  An absolute path to the application in the VM. Use this option if the application path
  on the host should be different to the application path inside of the VM

--vm <VM>

  A virtual machine name. The name must match with a name in the local firecracker
  registry


FILES
-----

* /usr/share/flakes
* /etc/flakes

EXAMPLE
-------

.. code:: bash

   $ flake-ctl firecracker register --vm NAME \
       --overlay-size 20g \
       --app /usr/bin/apt-get

AUTHOR
------

Marcus Schäfer

COPYRIGHT
---------

(c) 2022, Elektrobit Automotive GmbH
