doc/oci-ctl-register.rst, before:

OCI-CTL-REGISTER(8)
===================

NAME
----

**oci-ctl register** - Register container application

SYNOPSIS
--------

.. code:: bash

   USAGE:
       oci-ctl register [OPTIONS] --container <CONTAINER> --app <APP>

   OPTIONS:
       --app <APP>                An absolute path to the application on the host. If not
                                  specified via the target option, the application will be
                                  called with that path inside of the container
       --base <BASE>              Name of the base container. The name must match with a name in
                                  the local podman registry
       --container <CONTAINER>    A container name. The name must match with a name in the local
                                  podman registry
   -h, --help                     Print help information
       --target <TARGET>          An absolute path to the application in the container. Use this option
                                  if the application path on the host should be different to the
                                  application path inside of the container. Set this option to an empty string
                                  if the default entrypoint of the container should
                                  be called.
   -V, --version                  Print version information

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Register the given application to run inside of the specified container.
The registration process is two fold:

1. Create the application symlink pointing to :file:`/usr/bin/oci-pilot`
2. Create the application default configuration below :file:`/usr/share/flakes`.
   Each application registered is called a **flake**

On successful completion the registered *--app* name can be called
like a normal application on this host.

For further details about the flake configuration please refer to
the **oci-pilot** manual page.

OPTIONS
-------

--app <APP>

  An absolute path to the application on the host. If not
  specified via the target option, the application will be
  called with that path inside of the container

--base <BASE>

  Name of the base container. The name must match with a name in
  the local podman registry. Applications registered with a base
  container are merged into one prior creating the container
  instance. Using of this option is only useful if the specified
  container name references a delta container which was built
  against the specified base container. Such delta containers
  can be created with KIWI.

--container <CONTAINER>

  A container name. The name must match with a name in the local
  podman registry

--target <TARGET>

  An absolute path to the application in the container. Use this option
  if the application path on the host should be different to the
  application path inside of the container. Set this option to an empty string
  if the default entrypoint of the container should
  be called.

FILES
-----

* /usr/share/flakes

EXAMPLE
-------

.. code:: bash

   $ oci-ctl register --container SOME_APT_CONTAINER \
       --app /usr/bin/apt-get

AUTHOR
------

Marcus Schäfer

COPYRIGHT
---------

(c) 2022, Elektrobit Automotive GmbH

Commit message:

Allow multiple container layers for provisioning
So far delta containers can be provisioned against one base
container and optional host dependencies. However when creating
delta of deltas this introduces additional layers that needs to
be taken into account for provisioning the container.
This Fixes #43

doc/oci-ctl-register.rst, after:

OCI-CTL-REGISTER(8)
===================

NAME
----

**oci-ctl register** - Register container application

SYNOPSIS
--------

.. code:: bash

   USAGE:
       oci-ctl register [OPTIONS] --container <CONTAINER> --app <APP>

   OPTIONS:
       --app <APP>                An absolute path to the application on the host. If not
                                  specified via the target option, the application will be
                                  called with that path inside of the container
       --base <BASE>              Name of the base container. The name must match with a name in
                                  the local podman registry
       --container <CONTAINER>    A container name. The name must match with a name in the local
                                  podman registry
   -h, --help                     Print help information
       --layer <LAYER>...         Name of an additional container layer on top of the specified
                                  base container. This option can be specified multiple times. The
                                  resulting layer list is evaluated in the order of the arguments
                                  as they were provided on the command line
       --target <TARGET>          An absolute path to the application in the container. Use this option
                                  if the application path on the host should be different to the
                                  application path inside of the container. Set this option to an empty string
                                  if the default entrypoint of the container should
                                  be called.
   -V, --version                  Print version information

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Register the given application to run inside of the specified container.
The registration process is two fold:

1. Create the application symlink pointing to :file:`/usr/bin/oci-pilot`
2. Create the application default configuration below :file:`/usr/share/flakes`.
   Each application registered is called a **flake**

On successful completion the registered *--app* name can be called
like a normal application on this host.

For further details about the flake configuration please refer to
the **oci-pilot** manual page.

OPTIONS
-------

--app <APP>

  An absolute path to the application on the host. If not
  specified via the target option, the application will be
  called with that path inside of the container

--base <BASE>

  Name of the base container. The name must match with a name in
  the local podman registry. Applications registered with a base
  container are merged into one prior creating the container
  instance. Using of this option is only useful if the specified
  container name references a delta container which was built
  against the specified base container. Such delta containers
  can be created with KIWI.

--layer <LAYER>...

  Name of an additional container layer on top of the specified
  base container. This option can be specified multiple times. The
  resulting layer list is evaluated in the order of the arguments
  as they were provided on the command line

--container <CONTAINER>

  A container name. The name must match with a name in the local
  podman registry

--target <TARGET>

  An absolute path to the application in the container. Use this option
  if the application path on the host should be different to the
  application path inside of the container. Set this option to an empty string
  if the default entrypoint of the container should
  be called.

FILES
-----

* /usr/share/flakes

EXAMPLE
-------

.. code:: bash

   $ oci-ctl register --container SOME_APT_CONTAINER \
       --app /usr/bin/apt-get

AUTHOR
------

Marcus Schäfer

COPYRIGHT
---------

(c) 2022, Elektrobit Automotive GmbH
