doc/oci-ctl-podman-register.rst, before:

OCI-CTL-REGISTER(8)
===================

NAME
----

**oci-ctl register** - Register container application

SYNOPSIS
--------

.. code:: bash

   USAGE:
       oci-ctl podman register [OPTIONS] --container <CONTAINER> --app <APP>

   OPTIONS:
       --app <APP>
       --attach <true|false>
       --base <BASE>
       --container <CONTAINER>
       --include-tar <INCLUDE_TAR>...
       --layer <LAYER>...
       --resume <true|false>
       --run-as <RUN_AS>
       --target <TARGET>

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Register the given application to run inside of the specified container.
The registration process is two fold:

1. Create the application symlink pointing to :file:`/usr/bin/oci-pilot`
2. Create the application default configuration below :file:`/usr/share/flakes`.
   Each application registered is called a **flake**

On successful completion the registered *--app* name can be called
like a normal application on this host.

For further details about the flake configuration please refer to
the **oci-pilot** manual page.

OPTIONS
-------

--app <APP>

  An absolute path to the application on the host. If not
  specified via the target option, the application will be
  called with that path inside of the container

--attach <ATTACH>

  Attach to the container if still running, rather than executing
  the app again. Only makes sense for interactive sessions like a
  shell application

--base <BASE>

  Name of the base container. The name must match with a name in
  the local podman registry. Applications registered with a base
  container are merged into one prior creating the container
  instance. Using of this option is only useful if the specified
  container name references a delta container which was built
  against the specified base container. Such delta containers
  can be created with KIWI.

--include-tar <INCLUDE_TAR>...

  Name of a tar file to be included on top of the container instance.
  This option can be specified multiple times

--layer <LAYER>...

  Name of an additional container layer on top of the specified
  base container. This option can be specified multiple times. The
  resulting layer list is evaluated in the order of the arguments
  as they were provided on the command line

--resume <RESUME>

  Resume the container from previous execution. If the container is
  still running, the app will be executed inside of this container
  instance

--run-as <RUN_AS>

  Name of the user to run podman. Note: This requires rootless
  podman to be configured on the host. It's also important to
  understand that the user's HOME registry will be used to
  lookup the containers. It is not possible to provision
  base- or layers of containers across multiple container
  registries

--container <CONTAINER>

  A container name. The name must match with a name in the local
  podman registry

--target <TARGET>

  An absolute path to the application in the container. Use this option
  if the application path on the host should be different to the
  application path inside of the container. Set this option to an empty string
  if the default entrypoint of the container should
  be called.

FILES
-----

* /usr/share/flakes
* /etc/flakes

EXAMPLE
-------

.. code:: bash

   $ oci-ctl podman register --container SOME_APT_CONTAINER \
       --app /usr/bin/apt-get

AUTHOR
------

Marcus Schäfer

COPYRIGHT
---------

(c) 2022, Elektrobit Automotive GmbH

Commit message:

Add support for podman settings on the commandline
Allow to specify podman runtime options as part of the flake
registration. This Fixes #41

doc/oci-ctl-podman-register.rst, after:

OCI-CTL-REGISTER(8)
===================

NAME
----

**oci-ctl register** - Register container application

SYNOPSIS
--------

.. code:: bash

   USAGE:
       oci-ctl podman register [OPTIONS] --container <CONTAINER> --app <APP>

   OPTIONS:
       --app <APP>
       --attach <true|false>
       --base <BASE>
       --container <CONTAINER>
       --include-tar <INCLUDE_TAR>...
       --layer <LAYER>...
       --opt <OPT>...
       --resume <true|false>
       --run-as <RUN_AS>
       --target <TARGET>

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Register the given application to run inside of the specified container.
The registration process is two fold:

1. Create the application symlink pointing to :file:`/usr/bin/oci-pilot`
2. Create the application default configuration below :file:`/usr/share/flakes`.
   Each application registered is called a **flake**

On successful completion the registered *--app* name can be called
like a normal application on this host.

For further details about the flake configuration please refer to
the **oci-pilot** manual page.

OPTIONS
-------

--app <APP>

  An absolute path to the application on the host. If not
  specified via the target option, the application will be
  called with that path inside of the container

--attach <ATTACH>

  Attach to the container if still running, rather than executing
  the app again. Only makes sense for interactive sessions like a
  shell application

--base <BASE>

  Name of the base container. The name must match with a name in
  the local podman registry. Applications registered with a base
  container are merged into one prior creating the container
  instance. Using of this option is only useful if the specified
  container name references a delta container which was built
  against the specified base container. Such delta containers
  can be created with KIWI.

--include-tar <INCLUDE_TAR>...

  Name of a tar file to be included on top of the container instance.
  This option can be specified multiple times

--layer <LAYER>...

  Name of an additional container layer on top of the specified
  base container. This option can be specified multiple times. The
  resulting layer list is evaluated in the order of the arguments
  as they were provided on the command line

--opt <OPT>...

  Container runtime option, and optional value, used to create the
  container. This option can be specified multiple times.
  If no options are specified the container always starts with
  terminal emulation activated "-ti". In addition if none of
  --resume or --attach is set, the container will be deleted by
  default "--rm". If runtime option(s) are specified none of the
  default settings will apply. See the example section for further
  details.

--resume <RESUME>

  Resume the container from previous execution. If the container is
  still running, the app will be executed inside of this container
  instance

--run-as <RUN_AS>

  Name of the user to run podman. Note: This requires rootless
  podman to be configured on the host. It's also important to
  understand that the user's HOME registry will be used to
  lookup the containers. It is not possible to provision
  base- or layers of containers across multiple container
  registries

--container <CONTAINER>

  A container name. The name must match with a name in the local
  podman registry

--target <TARGET>

  An absolute path to the application in the container. Use this option
  if the application path on the host should be different to the
  application path inside of the container. Set this option to an empty string
  if the default entrypoint of the container should
  be called.

FILES
-----

* /usr/share/flakes
* /etc/flakes

EXAMPLE
-------

.. code:: bash

   $ oci-ctl podman register --container SOME_APT_CONTAINER \
       --app /usr/bin/apt-get

   $ oci-ctl podman register --container SOME_APT_CONTAINER \
       --app /usr/bin/apt-get \
       --opt '\-ti' \
       --opt '\--rm' \
       --opt '\--storage-opt size=10G'

AUTHOR
------

Marcus Schäfer

COPYRIGHT
---------

(c) 2022, Elektrobit Automotive GmbH
